Standard 3 Tier Sample
======================

This repo contains an example frontend, backend and monitor deployment in Kubernetes.

StatefulSets are used to maintain database machine names and IPs used between pod restarts.

The backend PG server and PG client are in a separate namespace and neither are exposed to the internet.

The frontend app is in its own namespace and is hidden behind a load balancer which is exposed to the internet.
The frontend apps themselves are private.

The monitors are deployed to their own namespace and monitor production environments.

Dependencies
------------
Before you attempt this example, please ensure you have done the following: -
- You have installed the Kubernetes client (kubectl) and Postgres client (psql)
- You have logged into a (Unix) terminal window that will allow you to do deployments to a valid K8s cluster
- You have your Kubernetes' context set to a system that you have permission to deploy to

Note: These solutions have only been tested with Kubernetes server `version 1.19.7`.

Running the Example
-------------------
This solution uses Kubernete's StatefulSets to maintain a PSQL installation.

To run this solution please do the following steps.

You only need to do this first step if you are changing your Kubernetes configuration...

    kubectl config get-contexts
    kubectl config use-context <default>
    kubectl config current-context

Once you have setup the client to point to the desired Kubernetes server, please run the following...

    ./reset.sh

This script will deploy the resources for you and then display the various IPs to use below.

Accessing the PG Server
-----------------------
To access the DB server, use the database server IP shown above run the following command (use password as the password)...

    kubectl exec postgres-client -it -n db-frontend -- psql -h <DatabaseServerIP> -U postgres -c "select * from pg_database"

This will use the postgres client installed on Kubernetes to run the PSQL. Nothing is exposed to the public internet.

Accessing the Frontend App
--------------------------
To access the frontend app, you can use...

    curl <IngressLB>/user/version

This will return a line of pseudo HTML with a version number generated by the frontend app.

Accessing the Monitor
---------------------
To access the monitors, you can use...

    kubectl get all -n monitor
    kubectl logs daemonset.apps/node-monitor -n monitor -f -c node-monitor
    kubectl logs daemonset.apps/node-monitor -n monitor -f -c fluentd-esearch

You will need to configure the monitors more to access the information.

Cleaning Up
-----------
To clean up the installation, do the following...

    ./reset.sh -d

This will delete all the items created in your Kubernetes installation.

Notes
-----
- https://hub.docker.com/_/postgres
- https://github.com/fluent/fluentd-kubernetes-daemonset
- https://medium.com/kubernetes-tutorials/cluster-level-logging-in-kubernetes-with-fluentd-e59aa2b6093a
- https://docs.fluentd.org
- This example is only for demo purposes
